LETTERÜ FHO.U ENGLAND.
Correspondence of The Tribune.
Vassags in tin Cumbria.Lord and Lady Falkland.Capt
Jtidh^nt^Lirerpoeil.Manchester.Mexhaniu' Institute
.' The Dial .Peace and War.The Working-Men qj
England.Their Tribute lo Sir Hoher: Peel.T'"
Intt Uhte.Sia! ues. Chalir.Vath i *g
A.MBLksmK. Westmoreland, 23d August, HI
I take the first interval of rest and stillness to be
filled up by some lines for The Tribune
three weeks have passed since lowing New-York,
but I have already had nine days of wonder in
England, and, having learned a good deal, supj
I may have something to toll.
Long beforo receiving this, you know that
wo wero forrunute ia the shortest voyage ever
mado across the Atlantic.only ten days and six
teen hours from Boston to Liverpool The weather
and all circumstances were propitious and, il some
of us wero weak of head enough to stiffor from tho
smoll and jar of tho machinery, or other ills by
which tho Sea is wont to avenge itself on the nr
rogonoo of its vanquishers, wo found nolQpy. The
stewardess observed that s!>o thought "any one
tempted God Almighty who complained on u voyage
where they did not even have to put guards to
the dishes!"
As many contradictory counsels w ere given »s
with regard to going m one ol the steamers m pre¬
ference to a sailing vessel. I will mention here, for
tho benefit of those who have not yet triodonOi that
he must bo fastidious indeed who could complainoi
the Cambria The advantage cd n quick passage
and certainty as to tho time ol arrival, would, with
us, have outweighed many dls. but. apart from
this, we found more space than we expected und as
much as wo ueoded lor a very tolerablo degree ol
convenience in oursloepiu;: rooms, h.-ttei n utilation
than Americans in general can be persuaded to nc
cept, general cleanliness and good attendance bi
tho evening, w hen the wind was favorable, and the
sails set so that the \csaol looked like a great
winged creature darting aea-ss the apparently
measureless expanse, the effect w as \ try grand,
but ah! for such a spectacle one pays too dear. I
far prefer looking out upon " tho blue and foaming
.ea" from a firm green shore
Our ship's company numbered several ploasant
members, and that desire prevailed in oa< Ii to ou
tribute to the satisfaction of all, which, il carried
out through the voyaged life, would make this
earth ns hnppy as it is a lovely abode At Halifax
we took in the Governor of Nbi ¦ Scotia, retui
from his very unpopular administration His lady
was with him, « daughter of William l\ and the
celebrated Mrs. Jordan, The English on board,
and tho Americans, following their lead, as usual,
seemed to attach much importance to her left hum!
ed alliance with one of the dullest families that
ever sat upon a throne laud that is a bold word,
too;) none to hor descent from one whom Naturehad
endowed with her most splendid regalia, genius
that fascinated the attention of all kinds and classes
of men, grace and winning qualities that no heart
could resist. Was tho cestus buried with her. that
no sense of its preeminent value lingered, as far us
J could perceive, in the thoughts oi anv except my
«elf I
Wo had a foretaste of the delights of living un¬
der an aristocratica! Go\ erumeut at the Custom
House, where our baggage was detained, ami we
waiting for it weary hours, because of the prefer
once given to the mass of household stuff carried
back by this same Lord and Lady Falkland.
Capt. Judkins of the Cambria, an able and prompt
Commander, was the one who insisted upon Doug
lass being admitted to equal rights upon his deck
with the insolent slaveholders, and assumed a tone
toward their assumptions, which, if the Northern
States had had tho firmness, good sense and honor
to use would have had the sarno effect, and put our
country in a very different position from that she
occupies at present. Ho mentioned with pride
that he understood the New York Herald called
him the Nigger Captain.' and seemed as w illing
to acoept tho distinction as Colonel McKenney is
to wear as his last title that of the Indian's friendi'
At tho first sight of the famous Liverpool Docks,
.Xtetiding miles on each side of our landing, w e
felt ourselves in a slower, solider, and not on that
account loss truly active state of things than at
home. Tlutt impression is confirmed. There is
not as we travel that rushing, tearing and swearing
that snatching of baggage, that prodigality o: ... e
leather and iungs that attend the coarse ol the
traveler in the United States. but we do not lose
our ..goods, wo do not miss our car. Tho dinner
if ordered in time, is cooked properly and served
punctually, and at the end of the day. more that is
permanent seems to ha\ e eetao of it than on the
foil-drive system. But more of that au i with a
better grace at a later day
The day after our arrival we wont to Man
ter. There we w ent over the raagniheent warehouso
of-Phillips, in itself a Bazaar enough
to furnish provision for all the wanta and fancies of
thousands. In the evening we w ent to the Me
chaaica' lnstioile and saw the boys and young men
in their classes. I have since visits th* M v..r.-
ttY Institute at Liverpool. wfcens morc thaa^
te-eu hundred pupils are received, and w ith more
thorough educational arrangement*; but the e.xw
lent spirit, the desire foi growth m-urssdotn and entightened
benevolence is thj» same in both por a
rwy small fee the mechanic, clerk or appresuice
and 'the women of their ikmiliea can receive vari¬
ous good and well-arranged iusttnctisui. not only In
common hrsnohes of ait English Education, bnt in
uiatheniaties. oominiirion. the French and German
languages, the practice and theory of tho Pine Arts,
and they are ardent in availing themselves of in¬
struction iu the. higher branches, i foemi large
classes, not oely-iu atvtutoctuxal drawing, which
may be supposto be ££krw ed with aviawto
profeasioaaJ -objects, oat landscape also, and
!". large '-rerman as French. They can,
i attend many rood leccures and concerts without ad- j
ditiosa! '-bar:/- for a dne piace i? Lere assigned to
Mtsic as to its irrSues.ce on the whole mind- Tue
large and well furnishcd iibrari. are in cc.stant
requisition, and toe books in mort constant de.ai-d
are not those of ar-aiita-Hit, but of a solid and per
n__e_t interest and value- Only for the last year
j in Maj&cbest.- and for two in Liverpool, have these
; arivaatages been extended to girls but n»rw that
part of the subject is looked upon as it ought to be.
and begins to be treated aiore and rnor? zs it mast,
aud sviD be wherever true civilization is __kiiigit5
. wav One of the handsomest honses in Liverpool j
has been purchased for tlit giris' school and room
and good arranrcrner.t been afforded fortbeir work
i and their play A_toag other tbbgs they are
taught, as they ought to be in all American schools.
to u; o tt aud tiretst.
1 had the pleasure of seeing quotations made
frcirxt our Boston - Dial in the address in whi'-b
! the Director of the Liverpool Institute, a very be
nevolent and intelligent man, explained to his dir- !
ciples and others its objects, and which concludes i
thus
But this subject of wit improvement is incjthauiiblc.
If traced to its results in action, it is. in fact, "The
Wh-.l'; Lmty ol .Man." Here,however, we canst »top.
Much remains, of which t_-rc may be an opportunity to
spe.ti hereafter. Meantime. I have soa^ii: to impress
one great phnciple.ratner thau to dwell on minor points,
however useful..a principle which, to us" our relation*
here, is unrpcakably irr.por.-t, identifying as it
doe*, intellectual linproveinfcnt with moral ooliga_on
I and moral progrej«. Waat further of detail it involves
and implies, I know that you will, each and all, think oat
for yourselves. Beautifully has it been said.M Is not tie
diaereses between spiritual and material things just
this that in the one case w-o must watch detAii*. in the
other, keep alive the high resolve, and the details will
take care of themselves I Keep the sacred central fire
burning, and throuirhout the system, in each of its teils,
will be .varmth and glow enough."'
To sum up in a few words what 1 wish now to 'ay. ii
you seek the powerpi speech end thought, '.and they
j reciprocally a.d euch other) let the service of your fel¬
lows ever be in view ; s.nd in this service be no', too cu- j
rious to inquire whether, how, nud when, your own happiness
will be the result; be prepared even for unhappinew;
in this world both arc but means: if prosperity
renders benevolence more beneficent, adversity renders
it more sympathetic; ifjoy is the sunshine which makes
your purpotes of good bear the richest fruit, sorrow is a
wind that will their strength, and ttrike their roots deepor
into the heart. All outward fortune will thus contribute
variously, but not unequally to your moral welfare,
For myselt. if I be asked what my purpose is in relatlon
to you. I would briefly reply ; it is that I may help,
be it ever so feebly, to train up a race of young men,
I who shall escape vice by rising above it: who shall love
j truth because it i= truth, not becnuse it brings them
wealth or honor who shall regard.fa as a solemn tiling,
Involving too weighty responsibilities to be wasted in
idle ortnvolous pursuits; who rhall recocnizc in tiicir .
daily labors not merely a tribute to the " hard necessity
of daily bread." hut a field for the development of their
better nature by the discharge of duty who shall judge
In ail things for themselves, bowing the knee to uo secj
tartan or party watchwords ot any kind: and who,
whilst they think for themselves, shall feel for others. I
and regard their talents, their attainments, their o;tportuuities,
their possessions, as blessings held in trutt for
j the good of their fellow-men. It may seem vain to aim |
at so high things with so humble mean* but we must
work with such means and such powers as we have; it
is for us to seek what is right, it is for another to fix the j
measure of success which tdiull attend our search.
1 found that The Dia! had been i end with earnest
interest by some of the best minds in these espe¬
cially practical regions, thatithad been welcomed as
n representative ol some sincere and honorable lifo J in America and thought the littest to be quoted un
der this motto
.' What are noble deeds but noble thought* reidized "
Among other sigus of the times webought Bradshaw's
Railway Guide, and opening it found ex
tracts [rout the writings ol our countrymen Elihu
liurritt and Charles Simmer, on the subject of
Peace, occupying a leading place in the .Collect"
forthe month [of this little hand book, more likely, in
an era like ours, to influence the conduct of the day
than would an illuminated breviary Now that
poace is secured for the present between our two
countries, ihu spirit is not Rigolten that quelled the
storm Greeted on every side with expressions of
feeling about the blessings ttf peace, the madness
and wickedness of Win lint would be deemed
romantic in our darker land. I have answered to the
speakers. " _ut you nie mightily pleased, and
illuminate for your victories in China and Ireland,
do you not .' " and they. unprovoked by the taunt,
would mildly reply. " IIV- tlo not. but it is too true
that n large part of the nation fail to brut:: home the
true nature and bearing of those events, and apply
principle to conduct with as much justice as they
do in the case of a nation nearer to them by kindred
and position but wo are stuo that feeling is
growing purer on the subject day by day. mid that
there will soon be a large majority against w-ar on
any occasion or for any object.''
1 hoard a most interesting letter lead from a
tradesman-in one of the country towns, whosedaughters
arc celt-elected instructors of the peo¬
ple in the way of cutting out from books and
pamphlets fragments on the groat subjects of the
day, which they send about in packages, or paste
on w alls mid doors. He said that one such pus
sago pasted ou a door, ho had seen read with eager
interest by hundreds to whom such thoughts were,
probably, quite new, und with some of whom it
could scarcely fail to be as a little seed of a large
harvest. Another good omen 1 loutid in written
tracts by Joseph "Barker, a working man of the
town ofWortley, published through his own printing
press. I have one of these before me. " On the
blessings of Free Trade-,'- whose opeoiing passage
convoys in brief and simple fashion the kiudof in¬
struction most needed by America.
RsspsOed OafriaM, ray fV/ends..AH 1 ask is that you
will hear me with patience.' I acknowledge that on va¬
rious religious question? my opinions are dificrent from
those ol most professors of religion, but 1 cannot conrider
myself as blamable on that account. My de*ue
is iu all things to know what is true and to reduce it to
practice iu thy life. All 1 care for is to know what is
j right and do it. It is true I judge for myself what is
'
right: but 1 leave others at liberty tn do the »aine. I
dinet from oilier*, but I allow others to dnier from me ; !
«ud there is n.it one o! you but what differs as widely
froui mo, us I dirler ti oui you why theu should we not,
j bear with one another i Whv cannot we each en toy I our liberty w ith thankfulues*. and leave the rest to God. i
I am accountable to God both for my opinions and pracj
noes, and that is enough. If 1 do wrong, God will puuish
me, and you have uo need to wish to help hin:; and it' 1
do rojlit lie will reward ma, and you caauut hinder
Ului. And jt'L also are accountable to Ood. and >hould
f rather be carefully tiro paring lot your own reckoning, j
thau judgiuc whether others are prepared or not If!
we cau mrtirTeach other> rengious opinions, let u» do .-o
»t the proper time: but don't "let us hate or persecute
each other. Let us teach each other in gectleuess and
J love, aud then leave each other iu the bands of Uod.
To our own master we stand or fall
I meet you at present as friends ot liberty, as persons j who rejoice in the freedom and the welfare ol mankind. } \V o meet to express our -oy and thankfulness for that
measure of freedom In trade which has been latelv
granted to u». 1 -taud forth 10 declare the joy and
thanktutness oi my u» ii ss'ul. and to state my reasons
tor them. 1 stand torti to express uiv hopes and wishes
and to show how-they may bo reahied. ¦
This is cot mere talk, noise and bluster, it is the j echo of a mighty voice from the very heart of the '
nation. Like the simple close ol" ^;r R. Peel's \
j speech on resigning the office of Trer-ier. to retire ;
to higher honors, it has that highest eloquence of a
piain and adequate sense of great facts. We vviQ
not deny ourselves the pleasure of adiUuc the
working man > tribute to the statesman w ho has
acted in the spirit of truth, ol honor, ot the genuine |
religion of mauhocs!. for a purpose which shall bear
us harvest w here no golden con; rield waves.
I must add a few words about r>is Roberl PeeL 1 j know but little of his former life, and 1 »ball therefore
say nothing about it But his conduct ot late has been
such a* to laciiue me to belteve that he hs> kttg bi-en a
lover ol hberry and '«eacc. ot knowledge and r.ghtvous- acsa. a WT-U-wisber to the people of this empire", and to
maakmd at large. He has had hi. fears no doubt, as si:
rv:or_er» hav e N. has been sir-id o:" oaeodiag his
parw, and ot lostag his trieads he has been afraid of
his utdueus.-e. sxvd le**eci=g hi. power to do -\ si '
yet still, m my judgment, he has leaned to the i_e
treodom ai»l i-quity. sad locged tor the welfare of tie j
people. ! do not »t all agree with those w ho e-.ve hu-
CZtWlt tor notiiag but « selfish pvla-v aud sarwnortact
and talent m what he ha- done 1 believe him to be a I
tr_!y wx»U--KsU_ng man. and to h_ve been .iiiuence-i
by an earucJt desuv to promotr tie >velt"»re ol his countryuien
»'id the »tlt_ie oi tie world. Iis conduct tor
sonic awe past has been truly :sohle and sd_ir_.de..
The way ui wctch he removed tie preasm»j ot tasation
ftoni tie peer to the rich tie n.naer in w hich be condacted
himself tn retireuce to the C^rrgoi: dispute; the j
ragerneaa, the anxiety, the resolution the stmicct-tcr- j Wwrdaete, i_. gie_ parlcuce sad Mcsareraaea with
whicli he toiled "*t:.l ph-xde-i fur lN.w Trade; tbs' rrtmly, | th* fortitude with wiiich hin braved repruarh
a:i J i^rsecuaon: the sserirlces which h«- made for it-
.sxkv the a.-Tuaes* and calmness with which he endured i
tie cruel and disgraceful taunt* and insults oi his ease
mies, deserve the hight s praise. 1"hey have aSected
j^T^fiial^Tol 1, p. V58. October, l?K». Jursiags of a j
TerT much- I never f=lt 3uch a respect lor a state*--
mln before tn all my m> It is impossible that be suoul i
be a hypocrite. I saou.d b- r?*diiy think of ouesttouing
the smeeriry. ate integrity oi the Apostle Paul as of Sr.
jtJbirt Peel If tne conduct of r?ir Robert Pee! for a
length oi time past does not prove hirn to be a rood, an
upright man a V.ver :¦! tr-th and -- <;
friend to ps-ace aad freedom a real we'.- wisher to tils''
improvement and the weiure cf his country and cu
kind, then a tree can no longer be known by its fruits.
th«n a fountain so laager be known by its rtre&m-.
For myself 1 look on sir Robert Peel as cne of the
greatest and beit-doer-cmg men ot our times. There is
not a -tate*man on earth in whom I hive greater coundence.
I behove him to be a sterling. Christian nan,
and I hope that the insults and ryr«e<rcticnf with which
he ha* met. gad with which he nay continue to meet.
will only perfect his character, snd prepare hiin for !
srxll rreäbEr us<-:u ne4s m day? to come
Ko doubt Sr r.o'.-rrt has his weakness, lus tiingbut
so have the best o' men. Ke has allowed himself to
be iniuenced at rimes by his tears but so have ali relor.-
r.ets. trom the days of Abraham to the present hour.
Jle hü hoped lo Etna by policy what could only t*
gain :i by i-elfiacritxe but all good men hav.e ind-jgea
such hopes. He has delayed good measures m hope* ot
waning over hü party by un.»- ^ud int torce ot tmtn
but the travel! retonners that ever lived have done the
same. ! do not believe ha to be ..¦ertect; much less
do I believe him to have been «iwr.y*.-. : .' ! 'till re¬
gard him at a great, good min. njriend es weil ü a benefactor
to his race.
*
There we many other thing? in the history ofar R.
Peel very much to his credit, besides those to which 1
have alluded, but I cannot even reier to them at present.
Bet what ot his conduct toward ö'Conceii: I an-
«wer it il only fan- to suppose, that as he was one o!
e party who were not ail as noble or as enHghtrned as
himself, he might consent to certain measures which be
did cot caite approve. I cannot myself but construe hi«
motives cnarixaory. I like to illumine the darker por¬
tions of his life by the br-ghter, and Lot to obscure the
brighter portions" by the df.TS.PT or the doubnul In
abort; I have a ruht good, comfortable cpmion of sir
R. PceL and I am glad" I have. 1 offer him my hearty
than.-ts for hl« triort« in tie cause of freedom and human
happiness: I congratulate him on his great tai porfona
tr.utnph and I pray most heartily that God may spare
his l.te. and favor him richly with the choircs: ot his
blessings, and make him a snil greater benefactor to his
kind.
As forCobden and his fel'.ow-laborere. there is no need
that I should dwell upon their merits. Almost every
one praises them. =ir Robert Pee! has msdc the greatest
sacrifices, and ha« been the greatest rutfercr; I therefore
sympathize the mc st with hnn." ' j
How trreat. how imperious :hc need of sich men.
of such deeds, wo felt more than ever, white competted
to turn a deaf ear to the squalid and shame¬
less beggars of Liverpool, or talking by nigh: in
the streets of Manchester to the giris from the
Mills, who were strolling bare headed, with coarse.
rode and reckless air through the streets, seeing
through the windows of its gin-palaces the women
seated drinking, too dull to carouse. The homes of j
England ! their sweetness is melting into fable
only the new Spirit in its holiest power can roatore
to those homes their buasted security of " each
man's castle." for Woman, the warder, is driven
into tho street, and has let fall the keys in her sad
plight. Yet. darkest hour of nicht is nearest dawn,
and there seems reason to believe that
'. There's a good time coming."
Blest be those who aid.who doubt not that
.¦ Smailc.-t helps, if rightly given.
Make the impulse stronger ;
'Twill be strong enough one day."
Other things wc saw in Liverpool.the Hoya!
Institute, with the starte of Roscoe by rhartney.
and in its collection from the works of the early
Italian arti«ts mid otherwise, bearing traces of that
liberality and culture by which the man. happy |
enough to possess them. and. at the same time
engaged with his fellow-citizens in praetieal life.
can do so much more to enlighten and form thein
than Prince or Noble possibly can with far larger
pecuniary means We saw tiie statue of Huskis
son in the Cemetery. It is tine as a Portrait Statue, |
but ns a work of Art wants firmness mid grandeur.
J say it is fine as a {«ortrait statue, though we were
told it is not like the original. hut it is a tine con- J
ception of an individuality which might exist, if it
does not yet. It is by Gibson, who received his
early edncation in Liverpool I saw there, too, the
body of an inlant borne to the grave by women
for it is a beautiful custom hero that those who
have fulfilled nil other tender offices to the little
being, should hold V> it the snme relation to the
very last. . i
From Liverpool we went t" «'bester, one of the |
oldest cities in England, a Roman station. <"estrea i
then and abode of the "Twentieth Legion, 'the
Victorious Tiles bearing tins inscription, heads
of Jupiter, other marks of their occupation have,
not long ago. been detected beneath the sod. The
town also hears the marks ot Welsh invasion and '
domestic struggles. The shape ofa cross in which |
it is Iii id out. its walls and towers, its four arched
gateways, its ramparts and ruined towers, mantled
with ivy, its- old houses with biblical inscriptions,
its cathedrals.in one of which tall trees have grown
up amid the arches, a fresh garden plot with flowers,
bright green and red, has taken place o^tlie altar
and a crowd of reveling swallows supplanted the
sallow choirs oi a formet priesthood.present a toutensemble
highly romantic in itself and charming, in¬
deed, to trans-Atlantic eyes Yet not to all eyes
would it have had charms, tor one American trav
eler, onrcompanion on the voyage, gravely a-sured
us that we should find the- castles end that sort ol
thing all humbug, and that il we wished to enjoy
them it would --be best to sit at home und rend
some handsome work on the subject."
At the hotel in Liverpool and that iu Manchester
1 had louuJ no bath, and asking for one at Chester,
the chambermaid said with earnest good will, that
"they had none, but she thought she could get me
a note from her master to the Infirmary ! ! if I
would go there." Luckily 1 did uot generalize
quite as rapidly as travelers m America usually
do. and put in the note book."Men: None but
the sick ever bathe in England;'' for in the next
establishment we tried. 1 found the plentiful pro¬
vision for a clean and healthy day, which I had
read would be met every tckere in this country.
All elso 1 must deter to uiy next, as the mail is
seou to close
